### Comet releases 2020.01

Documentation for parameters for release 2020.01 [can be found
here](/Comet/parameters/parameters_202001/).
[Release download here](https://sourceforge.net/projects/comet-ms/files/).

#### release 2020.01 rev. 4 (2020.01.4), release date 2021/05/11
- Bug fix: for Percolator .pin output, correctly calculate the dM (mass
difference) for all lower hit entries. The top hit's dM value was being
reported for all lower hits for each spectrum query. Issue and fix reported by
D. Goldfarb.
- Bug fix: address potential ThreadPool sleep issue. Issue identified and fixed
by D. Shteynberg.

#### release 2020.01 rev. 3 (2020.01.3), release date 2021/03/18
- Revert use of maps (ala HiXcorr) to spectral arrays for spectral
preprocessing. The use of maps had a measurable performance hit under Windows
that was especially noticeable for real-time search applications.
- For each "variable_mod0X" parameter, extend the 4th field to allow specifying
a minimum (in addition to the maximum) number of modified residues in each
peptide. Feature request by J. Mohr.
- In the text output, the xcorr rank column (2nd column) will now correctly
handle ties in its rank reporting.
- Extend the maximum length of reported protein accession string from 99 to 511
characters. Feature request by L. Liu.
- Real-time search: Comet was inadvertently looping over all PSMs for a
spectrum query to retrieve matched protein names. This was unnecessary and
caused a performance hit; protein names are now retrieved only for the top
scoring peptide(s).
- Bug fix: added a check to see if a directory path was specified as the
sequence database. Under linux, if a directory were specified as the database,
Comet would simply sit there and not report any error. Thanks to L. Mendoza for
reporting this issue.
- Bug fix: report proper flanking residues for a peptide when it is identified
in multiple proteins; use the flanking residues from the first protein in the
database. Similarly, flanking residues for start methionine clipped sequences
were addressed as those were not being handled correctly either.
- Bug fix: for real-time search using Comet's internal decoy peptides, storing
and reporting of duplicate peptides, e.g. a peptide that is present in both
target and decoy forms, was not being handled correctly; this has been
addressed.
- Bug fix: in the pep.xml output, the "index" attribute of the "spectrum_query"
element was not being populated correctly. With each spectrum batch, the index
value was being reset to 1. This has been corrected.
- Known bug: [per this thread](https://groups.google.com/g/comet-ms/c/JL9zrbNWcQM),
the mass difference (dM) column of the Percolator
.pin output is always reporting the mass difference of the top hit for all
lower ranked hits of a spectrum query.

#### release 2020.01 rev. 2 (2020.01.2), release date 2021/01/05
- Bug fix: Fixed issue where spectra were not being searched. This was due to
the poor attempt at a fix in release 2020.01.1 for spectra with all zero
intensity peaks.

#### release 2020.01 rev. 1 (2020.01.1), release date 2020/12/17
- For TIMS-TOF mzML files, changed the scan number reporting to be the scan
"index" value plus "1".
- Bug fix: Fixed issue where spectra that have all peak intensities of zero
would cause the program to crash. Issue reported by D. Shteynberg.
- Bug fix: Fixed issue where mzML scans without a precursor charge were not
being searched. This issue was limited to mzML and not a problem with mzXML
files. Issue reported by D. Shteynberg.

#### release 2020.01 rev. 0 (2020.01.0), release date 2020/11/09
- Known bug: scans where all peak intensities are zero will cause the program
to crash.
- Known bug: scans in mzML files without a precursor charge will not be
searched. This issue appears limited to mzML files themselves and is not a
problem with mzXML inputs.
- Implemented mzIdentML output via the parameter entry "output_mzidentmlfile".
The mzIdentML format does not fully support the reporting of Comet results so
this is considered preliminary support. Issues with the mzIdentML format for
Comet: (a) It appears as if the mzIdentML format expects decoy entries to exist
in the input FASTA file; at least that seems to be the expectation in the
documentation that I've read. Comet's mzIdentML output will report decoy
protein references even though they do not exist in the underlying FASTA file.
The reported decoy protein, like in the other output formats, is generated by
appending the decoy prefix to the protein accession that the decoy peptide was
generated from. I have no idea if the mzIdentML format allows for this or not.
(b) Within the "FragmentTolerance" element, the requirement of fragment "search
tolerance plus value" (MS:1001412) and "search tolerance minus value"
(MS:1001413) make no sense in the context of spectral correlation matching used
in Comet, SEQUEST and other tools that perform the cross-correlation score. A
fragment bin value and bin offset are needed to encapsulate the corresponding
fragment settings in Comet. Currently 1/2 of the "fragment_bin_offset" value is
reported for the search tolerance plus/minus values but this is a sad hack that
should not be required.
- The preliminary score has been modified in a few ways. First, I extended the
number of preliminary score ion "bins" considered from 200 to 1000. This allows
matching many more fragment ions in the preliminary score algorithm to get a
more representative matched ion count reported in the output files. Before this
change, the matched fragment numbers are likely under-reported for many
spectral matches of longer peptides. I have also gotten rid of the peak
picking, smoothing, and "stair-stepping" that used to be applied to the
preliminary score spectrum. All of these things contribute to a change in the
calculated preliminary scores. This score is still reported because some
post-processing tools make use of it but if it were up to me, I would get rid
of it entirely.
- Added the parameter entry "use_Z1_ions" to consider "Z• + 1" ions (typically
for ETD/ECD searches). Feature requested by A. Grimaud.
- Add support for Comet's internal decoy peptides in the indexed database
search (intended for real-time search application). As decoy peptides don't
need to be explicitly present in the indexed database, this reduces the index
database size and indexing time by nearly half compared to indexing a FASTA
file composed of target+decoy sequences.
- Add support for reporting multiple matched proteins in an indexed database
search. Previously only one protein name was returned for each peptide
identification. Now up to 20 matched/duplicate proteins are stored and
reported.
- Corrected/changed residue 'O' from Ornithine to Pyrrolysine. This entails
retiring the "add_O_ornithine" parameter entry and adding "add_O_pyrrolysine".
Thanks to P. Charles for reporting the correction.
- Added support for changing the text file output file extension from its
default "txt" extension to a custom file extension via a new parameter entry
"text_file_extension". Text file outputs are generated when the
"output_txtfile" parameter is set to "1". This custom/hidden parameter will
need to be manually added to your params file for use (i.e. it is not present
in the example params file available for download nor is it written in the
comet.params.new file generated by the command "comet -p"). Feature requested by
[PatternLab for Proteomics](http://www.patternlabforproteomics.org/).
- Added a parameter entry "explicit_deltacn" which controls how the deltaCn
output score is calculated. By default, Comet will very crudely analyze
sequence similarity when calculating the deltaCn score. This results in the
deltaCn being calculated between the top hit and the first dissimilar peptide
in order to avoid very small deltaCn values when the top N peptides are all the
same (such as different modified forms of the same peptide). When
"explicit_deltacn" is set to "1", the sequence similarity analysis is not used
and the deltaCn is calculated as the difference between the top scoring peptide
and the second best scoring peptide. This custom parameter will need to be
manually added to your params file for use. Feature requested by PatternLab for
Proteomics.
- Added "sp_rank" and "retention_time_sec" columns to the text output. Feature
requested by
[PatternLab for Proteomics](http://www.patternlabforproteomics.org/).
- Added preliminary support for searching TIMS-TOF mzML files. MSToolkit
updates now allow TIMS-TOF mzML files to be searched. Previous parsing of the
mzML file would return no spectra to search. I should note that I'm not sure
what the returned scan numbers represent. Also, a function to return the file's
last scan number was not updated for these TIMS-TOF files; this causes Comet's
search progress percentage reporting to return nonsensical values. Thanks to D.
Shteynberg and M. Hoopmann for the MSToolkit mods to support this.
- Extend the "activation_method"
- Removed reporting of "deltacnstar" in the pepXML output. It appears that the
score has been reported as "0.0" for every result and I've never understood
what it represented so I'm taking this opportunity to get rid of it now. NOTE:
PeptideProphet apparently expects to parse this score so stick to
[Comet 2019.01.5](/Comet/releases/release_2019015.html)
if you need PeptideProphet compatibility.
- Changed the "No_enzyme" text to "Cut_everywhere" in the enzyme definition of
the exported comet.params file. Hopefully this clarifies the purpose of that
enzyme definition of cleaving everywhere (as opposed to no digestion which
"No_enzyme" could convey). The enzyme text strings in the params file have no
function in Comet and can be named anything.
- In the spectral processing, large spectral arrays were replaced by peak
vectors as in the HiXcorr implementation of Comet. This makes the spectral
processing a bit more efficient, especially for small fragment_bin_tol
settings.
- Bug fix: When a protein N-terminal static modification is specified, it was
not being applied in the preliminary score routine for N-terminal peptides
resulting from a clipped methionine. Thanks to Thermo's BioPharma Finder group
for reporting the bug.
- Bug fix: In the text file output, the position of static C-terminal
modifications in the "modifications" column was always incorrectly reported as
"1" in the encoded modfication string; this has been corrected. Thanks to
Thermo's BioPharma Finder group for reporting the bug.
- Bug fix: When running multiple searches via interfacing with CometWrapper.dll
under Windows, the output file of subsequent searches was not updating. Thus
searches were simply overwriting the first output file. This has been addressed
with a simple variable initialization. Thanks to Thermo's BioPharma Finder
group for reporting the bug.
- Bug fix: Corrected a bug where every matched/duplicate protein was not always
reported due to a rounding/precision issue with storing of the xcorr. This was
noticed for an edge case (bad spectrum, small database) that should not affect
users in practice.
- I've sadly had to push off Comet-PTM integration to the next release again.
